The Gift of the Forest.
Venu had spent the day with his mother at the busy bazaar in Kodaikanal town selling their crops of fresh cauliflower, cabbage, garlic and onions.
 As they wearily made their way back to their village, Venu played his flute. 
He carried this flute everywhere and played exquisite music which always made his mother happy.
On entering their farmhouse in Vilpatti, Venu sat on a stool next to the bed where his father was resting. 
Tantai said the boy, please eat some more rice. 
It does not look like you have eaten at all today.
The doctor said you need to try and keep eating regularly so that you might keep up your strength.
The old man looked lovingly at his son.
Venu, my sweet boy, the doctor says all sorts of things.
But the truth is my health is getting no better.
 If only I had not worked in that mining factory for all those years I am sure my health would not be so bad.
  Poor Adhir s wife has received no compensation from the company after losing her husband and he worked so hard. 
  What does the company do? They just brush it aside under the carpet as if nothing happened.
They are getting away with murder.

Venu was always upset whenever his father spoke of his illness.
  Tantai, please don t talk like that, it makes me sad.
  I love you, Tantai! 

I love you too, my boy, but there is no future for you here.
 It was then that the old man s face took on a very serious expression. 

 That is why you must leave this place.
  I do not want you ever working in the mining factory. 
Not ever!.

 But I don t want to leave, Tantai. 

 I love the forest and have many friends here.
  I don t want to leave. 

The boy was very upset at his father s words and he began to cry, but the old man, despite his sickness and his frailty, remained stern. 
He said:

 How many times have we discussed this, Venu?
  There is no cure that can rid my body of the damage done by the mercury pollution. 
No cure for me or for my fellow workers. 

  These companies have no shame: coming to our beautiful land and taking over, destroying nature just for money.
   They do not care about the beautiful trees or the animals who make their home deep within the forest. 


 But I care!  said Venu as he jumped to his feet and stormed out of the house.
  His father knew where the boy was going: to his favourite place, his beloved forest.

Venu had always loved the forest, ever since he could remember.
 It enchanted him, made him feel alive, safe and loved.
He felt a freedom within the forest that he did not feel in any other place in the whole wide world.

And he loved to play his flute there, alone with the wildlife and the music.

Deep within the forest, the blue and purple flowers of the Kurinji were in bloom. 
 How majestic,  thought Venu as he admired the colourful plants spread here and there between the big cypress, eucalyptus and acacia trees.

Venu s favourite gifts of the forest were the wonderful fruits which he could pick off of the trees and eat.
He spotted a tree with peaches on it and picked himself a plump, juicy specimen that he knew instinctively would be ripe.
He bit into the red and orange flesh and the rich juice oozed out and ran down his cheeks.
How he delighted in this simple pleasure, sitting in his forest eating his peach while watching the nilgiri monkeys up above chasing each other from branch to branch.
Vinu also admired a beautiful flock of Red-Whiskered BulBul birds that flew towards him out of the blue sky above.
Then he saw Laila the baby elephant approaching.
He had been witness to her birth the previous year and they had been close friends ever since.
Venu walked up to Laila and offered her the remaining half of his luscious peach which she accepted in one mouthful.
The boy looked at his friend, his heart full of sorrow. 
 My father has plans for me to leave Kodaikanal, to leave my forest, but I don t want to go! This is my home. 

Once these words had left Venu s lips, the young boy began to cry. 

Laila looked up at the boy and said:

 Venu, my mother and father are both dead after drinking from the lake where the factory dumps its mercury waste.
 It is not safe here anymore. 
They have spoiled our paradise and they are not stopping. 
You must leave, Venu.
 I do not want you to fall ill! When you arrive in your new home, tell them what is happening to our forest.
 Tell them that the forest needs help.
 Tell them that the factory and the mines must go.
Venu wiped the tears from his eyes.
You are right, Laila.
 That is exactly what I am going to do.
  I will let people know what is happening here. 


  As the sun slowly fell from the sky, the two friends sat side by side in silence and took in the variety of sounds, textures and colours of their beloved forest. 
Eventually Venu got to his feet and brushed himself down. 
He felt much better for being in the forest but it was time to get home.

 Laila, I must leave now. 
Dusk is falling and I ran out of home in a real huff. 
Tāy and Tantai are probably worried sick. 


The little elephant smiled at the young boy. 
 Ok, Venu,  she said,  you go home. 
And thank you for caring. 


 Thank you for being my friend,  said the boy. 
And with these words they parted company.

Venu got back to his house and saw a star in the night sky. 
It was all alone, but it was so bright and it twinkled silver and white in the night sky. 
Venu stopped to admire this sight until his thoughts were interrupted by his father s voice. 
 

 Venu, come here, my son. 


The boy approached his father and gave him a big hug. 
The old man was very grateful to have such a loving son. 
He said:

 Your mother and I are not angry with you. 
We do not want you to leave. 
We just want what is best for you. 
A very generous friend in London has offered you a place in his home and he will support your schooling there. 
You will be leaving next week. 
I am sorry, my son. 
I cannot work anymore so we cannot afford to keep you with us. 


Venu put on his bravest face but was unable to stop the tears. 
 Yes, Tantai,  he said in a quiet voice,  I understand that you love me and want what is best for me so I will go to London. 


Venu held his father as tightly as he could because he did not know when he would see him again. 
The young boy was also very nervous because he knew nothing of London or of Britain. 
But he carried a glimmer of hope in his heart; He hoped that one day he would return to the forest, that he would come back and see the tall trees and the monkeys. 
He would see Laila and together they would watch the kunjiri flower bloom once again.
Venu was deeply unhappy about leaving his parents, but the forest needed him to stop the factory so he braved the shock of landing in a foreign land with the most courageous face he could muster.

He was met at the airport by his father s friend who was known to him simply as Balu. 
Balu was a large man with a jolly disposition. 
His favourite pastime was singing along to Tamil songs whilst he prepared his meals. 
Balu wanted to make the boy feel at home so he had prepared a large array of dishes for Venu s first meal in London.

Tamil songs played on the radio in the background as the two of them ate together that first evening. 
Venu shared with Balu what was happening in the forest back home, how the gifts of the forests were being destroyed, polluted by the mercury from the mining factory. 
 I am saddened to hear of what is happening to our beloved forest,  said Balu.

 I need to tell people about what is happening back home so that they might help us,  said Venu,  but all I can do is play my flute. 
I do not know what else I can do. 


The man and boy sat in silence over their dinner. 
They enjoyed the music on the radio but neither of them had a very good appetite. 
Then, quite suddenly, Balu shot up out of his seat with a look of excitement etched on his face.

 That s it!  he exclaimed.
 What is it?  asked Venu

 We will make a song about the forest and we will put it on the internet. 
We will get people to sign a petition to stop the factories and the pollution! 

 How will we put a song on the internet? I have never done that. 


 It s easy,  said Balu. 
 You have the talent. 
Your father has told me many times about your beautiful flute playing. 
And me… well, I have the technology. 
Ha, ha! I love doing stuff like this, making up Tanglish songs. 
This is going to be fun, I can feel it. 


 What is Tanglish?  asked Venu.

  It is when the words of a song are a mixture of Tamil and English… Pretty cool hey?  said Balu, chuckling to himself as though he had just found a secret key. 
 Come on, let s do it now. 
We ve had a lovely meal and I feel good. 
I ve got all my equipment set up in the living room already. 
You have got your flute haven t you, Venu? 

The young boy was very excited by Balu s idea, but he was also a little bit nervous as he had never recorded his music before. 
He said:

 I take my flute everywhere, but I am not sure about playing and recording. 
So many people might listen if we put it on the internet. 


 That is the whole point, my boy! And you are not just going to play,  said Balu with a big, mischievous smile. 
We are both going to sing too, you and I. 
We shall sing about the beautiful forest and how the factories are destroying our lands. 
Come on, let s get started. 


And so Balu and Venu spent the whole night recording music and thinking up lyrics that would capture what Venu wanted to say about the forest and all of its natural beauty and wonder. 
And most importantly of all, Venu wanted to tell people how the factories were causing damage to his beloved forest and how they should be made to stop.

All night long the duo worked on their song about the forest. 
They wrote and recorded the lyrics that would fit nicely alongside Venu s flute playing and some very strange and wonderful sounds that Balu created on his computer. 
All night long they worked, right up until the young boy was so tired that he dragged himself to bed and fell asleep instantly. 


 Good Morning, Venu,  said a cheery Balu as the young boy walked into the kitchen the following day. 
 Did you sleep well? Was the duvet warm enough for you? Britain can be very cold at times. 
Venu took a seat at the table as Balu prepared a breakfast of paratha and sweet chai.

 I ve got a surprise for you,  he said.

 What is it?  asked Venu, still half asleep.

 Well, after we finished creating our song last night, I uploaded it onto the internet. 
I was just too excited and wanted to share it with everybody as soon as possible. 
You re not angry with me are you, Venu?   

 Not at all. 
It was finished and it is our song. 
It belongs to us both. 


 Good, good,  said Balu, now barely able to contain his excitement,  because guess what? We ve already had over three million people listen to it so far! Three million! 

 What!  said Venu, his mouth full of paratha.

 It s gone viral! Unbelievable! And there are emails from people who are asking about the petition. 
An environmental charity wants to talk to you as soon as possible. 
They want to stop the mercury pollution from further damaging the forest, and they say they have the power to do this. 
Can you believe it? 

 Venu could barely believe his ears. 
 Let s call them!  he said, as excited as Balu. 
 I m ready to talk to them right now!  He jumped out of his chair and hugged his friend. 
 Without your help none of this would have been possible. 
Thank you Balu. 


 I just want you and all children to experience the gifts of our forest. 
No company has the right to destroy such a beautiful place. 
Come on; let s call the environmental charity who are going to help us. 


Balu dialled the number and Venu spoke to the serious sounding gentleman who answered the phone. 
The man explained how many of the people who worked for the charity had listened to the song on the internet and how they were all very impressed. 
Venu told the man about the factories and how his father was sick, and how Laila s mother and father had died after drinking from the contaminated lake.

The man from the environmental charity promised Venu that the factories would be made to stop. 
 It will not be easy,  he said. 
 It will be a long fight. 
But we will make sure they leave the forest in the end. 
And we shall make them pay compensation to the workers. 


When Venu put down the phone he was as happy as he had ever been. 
He and Balu had begun the process of saving the forest. 
Venu realised that one person could make a difference if they really cared, and he promised himself that he would never forget this lesson. 
 And one day soon,  he thought,  I will return home to my family and to Laila and the kurinji flowers, and all of the beautiful gifts of the forest.

 Agra is a city on the banks of the Yamuna river in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh.
It is kilometres south of the national capital New Delhi.
Agra is the fourth-most populous city in Uttar Pradesh and 24th in India.
Agra is a major tourist destination because of its many Mughal-era buildings, most notably the Taj Mahal.
Agra Fort and Fatehpur Sikri, all of which are UNESCO World Heritage Sites.
Agra is included on the Golden Triangle tourist circuit, along with Delhi and Jaipur and the Uttar Pradesh Heritage Arc.
A tourist circuit of Uttar Pradesh, along with Lucknow and Varanasi.
Agra is in the Braj cultural region.
The history of Agra before the Delhi Sultanate is unclear.
A 17th century chronicle called it an old settlement which was merely a village, owing to its destruction by Mahmud of Ghazni.
The 11th-century Persian poet Mas'ūd Sa'd Salmān writes of an assault on the fortress of Agra.
Then held by King Jaypal, by Sultan Mahmud of Ghazni. Despite his surrender, Mahmud sacked the place.
It was mentioned for the first time in 1080 AD when a Ghaznavide force captured it.
Sultan Sikandar Lodī was the first to move his capital from Delhi to Agra in 1504.
Its administration having previously been under Bayana.
He governed the country from here and Agra assumed the importance of the second capital.
He died in 1517 and his son, Ibrāhīm Lodī, remained in power there for nine more years.
Several palaces, wells, and a mosque were built by him in the fort during his period.
He was finally defeated at the Battle of Panipat in 1526.
Between 1540 and 1556, Afghans, beginning with Sher Shah Suri, ruled the area.
It was the capital of the Mughal Empire from 1556 to 1648.
The city was later taken by the Marathas and later still fell to the British Raj.
Agra features a semiarid climate that borders on a humid subtropical climate.
The city features mild winters, hot and dry summers and a monsoon season.
However, the monsoons, though substantial in Agra, are not quite as heavy as the monsoon in other parts of India.
This is a primary factor in Agra featuring a semiarid climate as opposed to a humid subtropical climate.
Agra city has a population of 1,585,704, while the population of Agra cantonment is 53,053.
The urban agglomeration of Agra has a population of 1,760,285.
Males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%.
Agra city has an average literacy rate of 73%, below the national average of 74%.
Literacy rate of males is considerably higher than that of women.
The sex ratio in the city was 875 females per thousand males while child sex ratio stood at 857.
Agra district literacy rate is 62.56%.
The golden age of the city began with the Mughals.
It was known then as Akbarabād and remained the capital of the Mughal Empire under the Badshahs Akbar, Jahāngīr and Shāh Jahān.
Akbar made it the eponymous seat of one of his original twelve subahs, bordering Delhi, Awadh , Allahabad, Malwa and Ajmer subahs.
Shāh Jahān later shifted his capital to Shāhjahānabād.
Since Akbarabād was one of the most important cities in India under the Mughals.
It witnessed a lot of building activity.
Babar, the founder of the Mughal dynasty,laid out the first formal Persian garden on the banks of the river Yamuna.
The garden is called the Arām Bāgh or the Garden of Relaxation.
His grandson Akbar the Great raised the towering ramparts of the Great Red Fort.
Besides making Agra a centre for learning, arts, commerce, and religion.
Akbar also built a new city on the outskirts of Akbarabād called Fatehpur Sikri.
This city was built in the form of a Mughal military camp in stone.
His son Jahāngīr had a love of flora and fauna and laid many gardens inside the Red Fort or Lāl Qil'a.
Shāh Jahān, known for his keen interest in architecture, gave Akbarabād its most prized monument, the Taj Mahal.
Built in loving memory of his wife Mumtaz Mahal, the mausoleum was completed in 1653.
Shāh Jahān later shifted the capital to Delhi during his reign, but his son Aurangzeb moved the capital back to Akbarabād.
The Jat kingdom of Bharatpur waged many wars against the Mughal Delhi and in the 17th and 18th century carried out numerous campaigns in Mughal territories including Agra.
After the decline of the Mughal Empire, the city came under the influence of Marathas and was called Agra.
Before falling into the hands of the British Raj in 1803.
In 1835 when the Presidency of Agra was established by the British.
The city became the seat of government, and just two years later it was witness to the Agra famine of 1837–38.
During the Indian rebellion of 1857 British rule across India was threatened.
News of the rebellion had reached Agra on 11 May and on 30 May two companies of native infantry.
The 44th and 67th regiments, rebelled and marched to Delhi.
The sun rises above the Amazon rainforest and the huge, evergreen trees allow rays of light to pass between their leaves and paint the forest floor in dappled shadows.
In one of the taller trees, little monkey Dora is waking up.
Dora is a pretty little monkey with brown hair and a long tail.
She wishes that she could sleep some more, but there is no time to lose.
Today is the day of the big party.
Monkeys will come from far and wide to attend the party.
Even from neighbouring countries such as Peru and Bolivia.
The big party, held in the Brazilian part of the Amazon Rainforest, is always a very big success.
There is music and dancing, and often a monkey will find a mate and fall in love.
Dora is very excited because this year she has been asked to help the older monkeys of the community with the organizing of the party.
This is a very great responsibility and there is no time to lose.
Dora arrives at the meeting early and is very pleased to see her friend Tinga.
Tinga is an indigenous name meaning ‘of white colour’.
This is the perfect name for Dora’s friend as he has white hair and green eyes.
Tinga is a very rare and shy monkey, but  when he sees Dora his eyes light up with joy.
The other monkeys often laugh at Tinga’s strange white hair and green eyes.
But Dora does not like such jokes.
She thinks that her friend is very handsome, even though her heart belongs to another monkey called Paco.
Paco is a big, strong monkey with thick, black hair who lives in the forest on the very edge of Bolivia.
Dora first met Paco at the big party the previous year.
They danced together only once but Dora knew then that her heart belonged to him.
She also remembers that Paco was arrogant, and that he did not pay her very much attention.
He had said that Dora was too young, and that she was always lost in her own fantasy world.
Despite all of this, Dora is looking forward to seeing Paco again, and such thoughts make her even more excited about the party.
Chief Ubirajara, a very big and very brave monkey.calls the meeting to order and begins to hand out tasks to the assembled monkeys.
Eventually it is Dora’s turn to be given her special task for the day.
But the little monkey is so lost in her own thoughts that she does not hear Chief Ubirajara’s instructions.
Have you been listening to a word I have said to you?
You are always lost in your fantasy world, even today when there is so much work to be done.
Dora is startled and stammers her reply.
Could you please repeat what it is you would like me to do today?
Chief Ubirajara is a little impatient with young Dora but he understands that she is still young and that she is also very excited about the party.
You must find for us the most beautiful and delicious cupuaçu and açai berries and the finest Brazil nuts for our feast tonight.
Chief Ubirajara claps his hands and smiles at the eager faces gathered in the forest clearing.
Now that everyone knows what to do, let’s get to work!
And so the monkeys part company, each one determined to fulfil their task in preparation for the big party.
Dora very much likes the idea of being in charge of finding the food for the feast.
She loves to explore the forest, jumping from branch to branch between the tall trees.
She also loves to look at the beautiful plants and rich wildlife that fill her beloved forest.
I am the best person to chose for a job such as this.
After many hours of hard work, Dora’s bag is filled with a rich bounty of fruits and nuts.
She thinks how proud Chief Ubirajara will be when he sees what a good job she has done.
This thought makes the little monkey very happy as she hoists the bag onto her shoulders and heads for home.
When Dora is halfway home, her thoughts are interrupted by a strange sound in the forest.
She looks all about her but does not see anything unusual.
She tells herself to take extra care, but before long her thoughts drift again to the coming party and the dancing and celebrating that will be had by all.
She thinks about how she will tidy her hair, and what she will say when she sees Paco.
I wonder if he will still think that I am too young.
Even so, he will surely be impressed by the beautiful fruits and nuts I have gathered for the feast?
Dora’s thoughts are interrupted again when she notices a rich, juicy cupuaçu on the forest floor in front of her.
How lucky to find a beautiful fruit such as this,she thinks, and runs to pick up the cupuaçu and add it to her bag.
But as soon as Dora’s hand reaches out towards the fruit, a huge net pulls tight around her body and hoist the little monkey up into the air.